.SH NAME
bl \- command‑line utility to get or set screen brightness on Linux systems

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bl
.RI [ options ] " <percentage>"
.br
.B bl
.RI [ options ] " +<delta>"
.br
.B bl
.RI [ options ] " -<delta>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbl\fP is a small helper program that manipulates the backlight brightness
through the Linux sysfs interface (\fI/sys/class/backlight\fP).  It can set an
absolute brightness level or adjust the current level by a relative percentage.

The program automatically re‑invokes itself via \fBsudo\fP if it is not run
with root privileges, because writing to the backlight sysfs files requires
elevated permissions.

.SH OPTIONS
No command‑line options are defined.  The first (and only) argument determines
the operation to perform:

.TP
\fB<number>\fP
Set the brightness to an absolute percentage of the maximum brightness.
The value must be an integer between 0 and 100.  Values outside this range
are clamped to the nearest bound.

.TP
\fB+<number>\fP
Increase the current brightness by the given percentage of the maximum
brightness.

.TP
\fB-<number>\fP
Decrease the current brightness by the given percentage of the maximum
brightness.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBbl 100\fP
Set the brightness to the maximum value.

\fBbl 50\fP
Set the brightness to 50 % of the maximum value.

\fBbl 15\fP
Set the brightness to 15 % of the maximum value.

\fBbl 0\fP
Set the brightness to the minimum value.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Success – the brightness was set (or already at the requested level).
.TP
1
Failure – an error occurred (invalid argument, missing backlight device,
or inability to obtain root privileges).

.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/sys/class/backlight/*/brightness\fP
Current brightness value (read/write, requires root).
.TP
\fI/sys/class/backlight/*/max_brightness\fP
Maximum possible brightness value (read‑only).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsudo\fP(8), \fBsysfs\fP(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the maintainer of the \fBbl\fP utility.
